# Scoping Review of the Literature

We conducted a scoping literature review in six sequential stages (11): (1) clarifying and linking the purpose and research question; (2) balancing feasibility with breadth and comprehensiveness of the review; (3) using an iterative approach where the search strategy is continuously reviewed and refined for improvement; (4) extracting the data from the literature; (5) incorporating a numerical summary, reporting results, and assessing the implications of study findings; and (6) consulting with stakeholders.

## Search Process and Inclusion Criteria

Literature searches were conducted in the following electronic databases: PubMed, EBSCOHost (choosing Academic Premier, PsycINFO and ERIC), LILACS, and SciELO. The search criteria required that articles had to (a) be focused on an EPI from a LAC country; (b) be in English, Spanish, Portuguese, or French; (c) have a focus on primary prevention (12) (i.e., activities that result in abstinence, delayed onset, or reduction in the likelihood of ATOD use) or health promotion (i.e., positive prosocial activities that offset or mitigate the likelihood of ATOD use); (d) focus on ATOD use as a final outcome of the intervention; and (e) target children, youth, or young adults between the ages of 6 and 21 years. The search strategy was adjusted for each country, with the inclusion of more complex search terms for countries with a higher academic publication output and simpler strategies for countries with a smaller output. 

Eligible preventive interventions had to meet the definition of a program, environmental strategy, or prevention implementation system. A program was defined as a manualized curriculum administered by trained professionals in a specific setting and usually requiring certification. An environmental strategy was defined as a nongovernmental set of coordinated activities targeted to a specific population, typically not requiring extensive training or certification. Prevention systems were defined as an integrated set of preventive interventions or implementation-related activities (e.g., program selection, fidelity monitoring) conducted in a broad setting (e.g., community, workplace) that coordinate prevention efforts in groups of people. Broad governmental prevention policies at a national or local level (e.g., minimum age for alcohol use laws, single cigarette sale regulations, alcohol distribution restrictions) were excluded from the search, with exceptions for countries that implemented specific EPIs through policy initiatives. EPIs that were exclusively educational or informative (e.g., public lecture) without a specified behavioral change component also were excluded from the search.

# Literature Search Data Synthesis

Articles identified using the literature search criteria were synthesized in a coding and extraction spreadsheet. First, article titles and abstracts were scanned to assess if the inclusion-exclusion criteria were met. Articles that passed this stage then had their full text scanned for confirmation of compliance with the inclusion-exclusion criteria. Finally, articles that still were approved were subject to data extraction where coders thoroughly read the full text of the publications and extracted key information about the EPI. The PRISMA (Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses).